# Tools Overview

Located in this directory are various tools to assist with image conversion tasks. Below is a brief overview of each tool and its purpose.

1. **extract_frame.js**

   - A Node.js script that extracts a frame from the packed .assets file generated by the image-converter.
   - useful for debugging and verifying the contents of .assets files are sitting at the correct offsets.

2. **split_assets.js**

   - A Node.js script that splits a packed .assets file into more manageable chunks for the Espruino environment.
   - This is particularly useful when dealing with large images/sprite sets that exceed memory limits. as a single file

3. **unpack_assets.js**

   - A Node.js script that unpacks a .assets file into img files ready for use in by the Espruino interpreter.
   - This is useful for recovering original images from packed assets for further editing or analysis.

4. **validate_assets.js**

   - A Node.js script that validates the integrity of a .assets file by showing its structure, contents and offsets.
   - It checks for common issues such as incorrect offsets, missing frames, or corrupted data to ensure the assets are usable.

## Usage

Each tool can be executed using Node.js. For example, from the root of the repo, to run the `extract_frame.js` tool, use the following command:

> @param 1: ID of Pokémon i.e. 1 for Bulbasaur, 25 for Pikachu etc.  
> @param 2: Frame Index to be extracted i.e. 0 for first frame, 1 for second frame etc.

```bash
node converter~/image-converter/tools/extract_frame.js [options]
```
